Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're now finally going to discuss how to write your own modules
and packages.
So we understand how to install external packages that people uploaded to pie pie.
Let's explore how to create own modules and packages and to clarify some of the semantics here.
Module's it's really just a PI script.
So it's a fancy way of saying here's a postscript that I'm using in another PI script.
So that act of using it in another PI script allows you to call it a module.
Again this is really just semantics but packages are then a collection of modules.
However there's a key that postscript called underscore underscore in its underscore underscored the
pie that needs to be placed inside of a folder to let Python know that this collection of that postscripts
should be treated as an entire package.
So we're going to show all of this through some examples.
Keep in mind since we're dealing with postscripts here we're not going to be able to show these examples
through the notebook.
Instead we're going to need to do is use subline text editor or any other idea that works without PI
files in order to create the scripts and folders.
Let's get started by opening up Sublime Text Editor.
All right so we're going to start off by creating two files here.
The first one will save it to the desktop will say file new file or we can actually save the don't currently
have save as and on my desktop I'm going to say this as my module not pi.
So this is the module and remember all that module is just the top high script being called in from
another file.
So let's create the other file saying you file and this one we're going to save it.
Also on the desktop in the same location as my module that pie and I will say my program that pi and
save that.
So inside of my module what I'm going to do is just create a very simple function will say F and then
say my func and all this does is it prints out hey I am in my module PI control s to save that.
And then in my program this is another dot PI script and I want to use the code from my module.
So here we can get the idea that if you have a really large script you're not going to put everything
in one giant pie file.
Instead it will be nice to split it up between multiple dot py files which means you split up between
different modules and then later we'll see how he can aggregate bunch of modules to create a package
so far or do in my program say from my module import and then we're going to import my funk and let
me make sure I spell that right.
OK.
My underscore phunk.
And that means I can now call it here.
So I'll say my phunk I'm going to say this.
And let's see if it works by going to our command line.
So here I am now at my command line.
Remember I save these files at my desktop.
So let's see the to the desktop change directory.
And now I should be able to call Python and then call my program that PI enter and I see hey I and my
module pi.
So we were able to successfully call the other function from the other module the py file into my program
that pi and this is the very basic way of how you would actually format the PI scripts in order to not
have everything in a single script.
Now at a certain point even this is going to start to be too much and now you're going to want to aggregate
modules together to form and package and that way you can have different folders for different packages.
So let's show you how to create a package's.
So we're going to come back here to my program that pi in my module top pie and will open up and say
new file and then we're going to save this Save As and here at my desktop I'm going to do a few things.
The first thing I'm going to do is create a new folder here.
And this folder will call it my main packet.
Enter And then inside of this folder we're going to create another new folder and we'll call this sub
package.
So we're going to be creating lots of files and folders here.
So right now we have at my desktop my module up high in my program that pi and I've also created my
main package folder and inside of that I have my sub package.
Now since these are just directories or folders we need to let Python be able to understand that we
want to treat these directories not just as a normal directory but as an actual package.
So to do that inside both my main package and sub package I'm going to have to create a file called
underscore underscore in it.
I NIIT underscore underscore that PI save that and make sure you have this in it py file in your package
now you don't actually need to write anything in this file.
It just needs to be there so that when Python goes searching through these packages it understands that
it's not just the normal directory it's an actual package.
So we're going to create one more files a new file.
Now we're going to say this under some package will create another underscore underscore in it underscore
underscore the PI file.
And again this one is going to be blank as well.
So we have both of these.
Notice here how sublime is telling us which are referring to this one in my main package and this one
in the package.
So we're going to close these.
We're not going to be working with them anymore.
We just need to have them name there.
OK.
So I had my module and my program what I'm going to do now is say file new file and I will say save
as an inside of my main package and I'm going to create some main script that PI save that and then
we'll also do a file new file.
And let's put another PI script inside of my sub package.
So we will save file save as an inside of the sub package along that other file We're going to create
the following we will say my sub script that pi.
So now I have this outside module some main script inside of that main package folder.
This subscript inside of that sub package folder and then my main program so we can do is we can start
playing around with this all the way for my program.
So what I'm going to do is inside of my subscript will say if than say sub report and have that print
out.
Hey I'm function inside my subscript
control as the save that we're going to do a very similar thing here in some main script and we will
say the E-F will call this report main
and this will print out.
Hey I am in some main script in main pack which say that it's well OK.
So let's take a look at the rectory right now.
We'll say open a file just so we can explore this.
So at my desktop right now I have this my module that PI won't really be playing with that anymore but
instead I have this my program that pi.
Now we can think of my program that pi as the main PI script.
I want to run and I want to organize my files into packages.
So right now we've explored how to actually create a single module which is just the PI script and you
can imagine we'd be importing from various modules so various scripts that at a certain point it's going
to be too much and we want to organize them into folders.
So the way you would do that is you would have packages which are just directories that have this in
the pie.
So underscore underscore in an underscore underscore that pie.
And that tells Python hey this actual directory it has a bunch of modules in it so you can call them
using a certain syntax which we're about to show you.
So here we have some main script.
You can imagine I could have many more postscripts or many more modules inside of this package and we
can keep going with sub packages as long as they have this in that pie.
And here I can see my subscript.
So I'm going to cancel this and when I'm going to do is inside my program that pi I already know how
to import from module.
But now let's realize how to import from a package to import from a package what I can say is from my
main package.
I can either import the actual module itself.
Remember the module in my main package it was called some main script.
So we'll save some main script and if I wanted to import from a sub package what I would say from my
main package dot sub package and then I can import some module from there.
So in this case it was called My subscript.
So this is now how you can organize not just into a single directory but you can actually organize into
subdirectories as well.
And this is the syntax for that you say dot the name of that sub package import and then import the
modules.
And if you want you can go even further and actually import only specific functions.
So we'll show you how to do that in just a second.
But let's actually call the functions from some main script.
So from some main script right here we want to call the function that's inside that script so if we
click back here we realized that that one is just called Report main.
So coming back or I'll say some main scrip report main close parentheses.
So we're actually executing the function report Main which is under some main script module which is
under my main package.
Then we also want to if we look at my subscript that has the subreport.
So let's run that as well saying my subscript call sub report open close princes.
So let's save that and then let's run my program that pi at the command line.
So we can see what happens.
All right so now here back on my desk top up the command line I will say Python call my program that
pi and I hit enter and I see hey I am some main script in main package and then hey I'm a function inside
my subscript and that's it.
Now you've successfully not only created a module in the first produce lecture but you also created
packages and sub packages.
And in general the idea here is just how do you organize various Paice scripts as you begin to grow
better and better in Python.
You're going to write more and more Python code.
So at the beginning you'll create a couple of modules to all be in the same folder.
No big deal then as it starts getting more and more unwieldy to have it all in the same folder all you
need to do is create directories to have that special underscore underscore in it underscore underscore
that py file.
That just tells Python hey this is now a package and it allows you to run.
What we see here.
This my main package my main.
That's a package.
Notice here we were actually importing modules so you can see here that I'm just saying from some package
name import some module what you could do as well is import functions.
If you only intend to to use a single function so you could say from my main package import some main
script instead.
You could do say from my main package dot some main script import report main Whoops no open close friends
there and then instead of calling some main script you would just say report name.
So that's the same thing and we can come back and confirm that at our command line coming back here.
We run this again and we see.
Hi I am some script again.
It's up to you whether you want to import entire modules or just specific functions.
OK.
That's the basic idea of packages and modules if you have any questions feel free to post to community
forums and we'll be happy to help you out there.
I'll see you at the next lecture.